# Market-Segmentation
CRISA has traditionally segmented markets on the basis of purchaser demographics. They would now like to segment the market based on two key sets of variables more directly related to the purchase process and to brand loyalty, doing so would allow CRISA to gain information about what demographic attributes are associated with different purchase behaviors and degrees of brand loyalty, and more effectively deploy promotion budgets.
We are using the clustering based approach for this case study because in the context of market segmentation, cluster analysis is the use of a mathematical model to discover groups of similar customers based on finding the smallest variations among customers within each group.
The cluster's definitions change every time the clustering algorithm runs, ensuring that the groups always accurately reflect the current state of the data. The customers within each segment are very similar to one another and significantly different than those in other segments. In other words, each segment tells a different customer story. So our approach will be first, a cluster that describes purchase behavior, a second cluster that describes basis-for-purchase. A third clustering will then consider both sets of variables.
The better and more effective market segmentation would enable CRISA’s clients to design more cost-effective promotions targeted at appropriate segments. Thus, multiple promotions could be launched, each targeted at different market segments at different times of a year. This would result in a more cost-effective allocation of the promotion budget to different market segments. It would also enable CRISA to design more effective customer reward systems and thereby increase brand loyalty.

Cluster 1: This segment shows the highest volume of purchases for Other promotions and no promotions but with the lowest volume of purchases with promotion_6 (Branded Offers). In terms of price categories, this group is inclined the highest towards price category 3 and lower inclination towards price categories 1, 2 and 4. 
In terms of Proposition categories, we don't observe any high inclination towards any one category. It may seem this is not a basis of their purchase. In terms of socio-economic conditions, this segment majorly belongs to SEC_4 which is of the lower socio-economic class. This is obvious with the lowest Affluence Index seen in the graph and non availability of television. In other words we see this segment more inclined towards buying soaps with promotions with lower prices, extra grammage, free gift, Value added packs and not inclined towards a particular brand.

Cluster 2: This segment shows medium volume purchases for with or without promotions with the highest inclination towards price categories 2 and 4. In terms of Proposition categories, we see highest inclination towards category 5 i.e Beauty. This group highly belongs to SEC_3, but we also see some presence in SEC_4 as well as SEC_2. This group is the middle class with a medium Affluence Index along with a decent exposure to television advertisements.

Cluster 3: This segment shows the highest volume of purchases with promotion_6 (Branded Offers), a medium volume of purchases for Other promotions and alternatively it is the lowest volume with no promotion. It has the highest average volume purchased for Price Category 1 and decreases with the Price Categories 2, 3 and 4. With respect to proposition wise purchase, this group is more inclined towards Proposition categories 6,7 and 8 which are respectively Health, Herbal and Freshness related soaps. This segment belongs to SEC_1 and SEC_2 which are higher socio-economic conditions. This is obvious with the highest Affluence Index seen in the graph. We also observe that television availability for this segment is the highest, hence it is the most exposed group with respect to marketing through televisions.

In conclusion, from the above analysis we see that cluster 1 which is of lower socio economic conditions and is inclined towards other promotions, price reductions, free gifts and not showing a particular inclination towards any particular proposition category.. Whereas, cluster 2 and cluster 3 are from middle and higher socio economic conditions, are more inclined towards branded offers and proposition categories of Beauty, Health, Herbal and Freshness.
Based on this different marketing strategies can be developed to target each of these segments separately.


# Conclusion:
Based on the above interpretations, for the purpose of marketing strategy any one of the above two basis of segmentation i.e purchase behavior or basis of purchase can be used.
Combining Purchase behavior and basis for purchase variables provided us with only 2 distinct clusters. As the value of k increased the segmentations were less distinct and a high overlap was developed, hence this has been disregarded.
